---
title: Don't Quit Your Day Job
date: 2021-07-05
---
There is an old saying "don't quit your day job" that is oft-used when showing
a new skill to another, usually as a way to indicate that you might not yet
have perfected that new skill sufficiently to make it a viable career in its
own right. Keeping my day job is part of what makes progress here quite slow.
---


# Don't Quit Your Day Job

It's good advice. Not quitting your job is a great way to retain much needed
income to pay for life, and also to bring structure to the projects you work on.
However, it also has the annoying side effect of getting in the way of side
projects and ideas that you'd like to work on. I like my job, and I'm very
thankful for the challenges and financial stability that it brings to my life.
However, there are times where I need to really focus on what is happening
there and due to sensible priorities, side projects such as building the statn
tend to get put on hold during those times.

I've been focusing pretty heavily on building some internal development tools
at work lately. It's a new area of work for me and I'm learning a lot of new
skills, which is great from a personal development perspective, but its leaving
me a bit short of both energy and time to work on statn stuff for now.

I'm approaching the end of a release, which means I should have some more time
to start working on the first tutorial videos for statn setup and configuration
soon. For now though, I'm embroiled in learning about VSCode extensions, and
how to construct, test, document, and deploy them at an enterprise level.
Everything is a little more complicated when doing it for a large company.