---
title: The Long Way Round
date: 2021-07-01
---
It isn't always clear which route to take when solving technical problems.
Sometimes you get lucky and either through instinct, experience, or luck you
choose the fastest or most efficient route. Other times, you take the long way
round. Recently, I took the long way around and learned a lot.
---

# The Long Way Round

As part of buildling out the Statn (station), I wanted to be sure to get the
infrastructure solid before diving too deeply into specific software projects.
I have a lot of little projects on the backburner right now, and there is a
large temptation to just get lost in coding one of them. However, I started
this site to provide me with some much needed infrastructure for hosting notes,
documentation, and other supporting assets that can transform the experience
of adopting a new library or utility.

I believe strongly in good documentation and testing as a means to assist
others in using and benefiting from software. I empathize with anyone who has
been asked to look at a software library and learn either how to use it or to
integrate it with an existing software product. Even the most amazing and
wonderfully crafted software can be valueless if potential users do not
understand how to unlock the awesome stored inside.

However, out of a desire to "do things right", I found myself going down ever
deeper rabbit holes in the pursuit of a master workflow for documenting and
supporting libraries, which took me far away from the software I actually
wanted to build. To this end, I've put a few of those infrastructure projects
on hold for a while to let me get back to building the software itself for a
while. A couple of weeks detour to build a little infrastructure is one thing,
but realizing that you're going to spend a year or more before delivering
anything tangible is too much. That's where I found myself recently and is the
reason I've called a pause on infrastructure for now.

I'm going to run with the notes, blog, and documentation sites as is for now,
and worry about tighter integrations with build systems, diagrams, automatic
documentation generators, and an integrated issues list on another day. I love
building my own tools because I get so curious about the experience of doing so.
I know going into it that I'll likely create a tool far inferior to those
already available, but it's the draw of building it that I can't resist. I'll
still finish those projects someday, but for now I want to re-focus on the
primary task at hand, delivering the projects I already started for which this
infrastructure will provide critical support to anyone bold enough to use them.